README
======

You can find the latest information and release at the URL

	http://www.iki.fi/jle/agenda/vrfig/


Description
-----------

VRFig is a simple tool for drawing figures. It has been developed for
PDA use and especially for the Agenda Computing VR3 Linux PDA *). The
goal is to be able to plan things and sketch technical drawings on the
road without always dragging a laptop computer around. The intended
ultimate use could be sketching or browsing a software architecture
diagram while sitting in a bus, for example. The biggest challenge is
to overcome the inherent limitations of a PDA user interface.

Wouldn't it be easier to stick to pen and paper then? I don't believe
myself that anything PDA based could come close to the usability of
pen and paper (as long as we are talking about the palm sized PDAs).
However, the one advantage VRFig has over pen and paper is that it is
easier to import/export figures from/to desktop drawing programs.
VRFig is not intended to be a stand-alone fully featured vector
graphics editor but a kind of off-line terminal to a desktop drawing
program.


*) http://www.agendacomputing.com/


License
-------

VRFig, a vector graphics editor for PDA environment
Copyright 2001 Johannes Lehtinen

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version. See the file 'COPYING' for details.

For information about the author see the file 'AUTHORS'.


Status
------

VRFig is currently under development. It is not yet ready for real
intented use. These early releases are mostly targeted to other
developers who are interested in participating the development process
or who want to reuse VRFig source code. VRFig can be already used for
drawing figures and it is able to save and load them but the set of
drawing primitives is still rather limited. The user interface also
needs work and the desktop side interface to desktop drawing programs
(such as XFig) does not exist yet.

See the file 'NEWS' for news about the current release and the file
'ChangeLog' for the latest changes.


Binary distributions
--------------------

The binary distributions for Agenda VR3 are named as
'vrfig-vr3-VERSION.tar.gz' (no .vrp at this time, sorry). To install a
binary distribution first extract the archive to get the basic
documentation and two binary files: 'vrfig' and 'libexpat.so.0.0.1'.
The latter one is an Expat XML Parser shared library which is being
distributed separately since VRFig release 0.2 to enable sharing of
the library among different applications. Most probably you need to
install the library if you haven't previously installed a VRFig
release 0.2 or later.

To install the Expat library and the VRFig to your VR3, you have to
first establish a PPP connection between your desktop workstation and
your VR3. In the instructions below replace the '<VR3 IP>' by the IP
address assigned to the VR3. For help about establishing the PPP
connection and using rsync, see Andrej Cedilnik's great info page at

	http://www.cs.umbc.edu/~acedil1/agenda/

To install the Expat library, copy the 'libexpat.so.0.0.1' and the
necessary symbolic links to your VR3 directory '/usr/local/lib' using
rsync:

  rsync -l libexpat.so.* <VR3 IP>::root/usr/local/lib/

To install VRFig itself, copy the 'vrfig' binary to VR3. You could put
it in '/usr/local/bin', for example:

  rsync vrfig <VR3 IP>::root/usr/local/bin/

To add the VRFig to startup menu, you can also copy the menu system
link to the VR3:

  rsync -l wmx_VRFig <VR3 IP>::default/.wmx/Applications/VRFig

Before you can actually execute the VRFig, you have to reset the VR3
(or if you know what you are doing, just run '/sbin/ldconfig' and
start VRFig from the command line).

There are no usage instructions at this point. Like I said, it is not
yet ready for prime time, sorry :)

Notice: You can not execute these binaries on your desktop computer.
They are compiled for little-endian mips architecture.


Source code distributions
-------------------------

The source code distributions are named as 'vrfig-VERSION.tar.gz'. If
you downloaded a source code distribution you need to compile the
VRFig yourself. To compile the VRFig for Agenda VR3 you need a
suitable cross-compiling environment. For further information about
Agenda VR3 development, see the Andrej Cedilnik's great info page at

	http://www.cs.umbc.edu/~acedil1/agenda/

To compile the VRFig you must have the following libraries installed.
The version numbers in parentheses are versions that are known to work
but newer versions might work as well if they are backwards
compatible. If you have a full Agenda VR3 cross-compile environment
then the only thing you probably need to cross-compile is the Expat
XML parser library.

	* standard C/C++ libraries (glibc 2.1.2 & 2.0.7)

	* X development environment (XFree86 3.3.6)

	* Fast Light Tool Kit (FLTK) 1 (1.0.9)
	  with Agenda Computing patches

	  http://www.fltk.org/
	  http://developer.agendacomputing.com/

	* Fast Light Environment Kit (FLEK) (2001-03-05)
	  with Agenda Computing patches

	  http://flek.sourceforge.net/
	  http://developer.agendacomputing.com/

	* flpda user interface library (0.3)

	  http://developer.agendacomputing.com/

	* Expat XML parser library (0.7.13)
	  (If you link the VRFig with a shared Expat library then you
	  must install the shared library and the necessary links to
	  '/usr/local/lib' directory of the VR3. To get a stand-alone
	  VRFig binary link with a static Expat library.)

	  http://expat.sourceforge.net/


See the file 'INSTALL' for generic build instructions. The VRFig build
system uses automake and autoconf so it should be very GNUish.

There are no usage instructions at this point. Like I said, it is not
yet ready for prime time, sorry :)


Contributing
------------

If you would like to contribute to the VRFig development process,
please do so :) You can contribute by

	* Sending bug reports

	* Sending bug fixes (see 'TODO')

	* Implementing new tools and elements (see 'TODO')

	* Having new insights about how things should be and letting
          me know about them

	* Going through the documentation and correcting my English

	* Writing documentation for developers or users

	* Supporting other open source projects (VRFig wouldn't exist
          without the available open source software and tools)


The preferred contact method is e-mail.

If you have fixed a bug or would like to implement a new tool or
element for the next VRFig release please send me your modifications
as diffs using the '-u' option of 'diff' (unified context). Try to
base your modifications on a fresh (latest) release and remember to
tell me which release you used as a base for your modifications.

I will set up a CVS repository somewhere if it turns out that there
are actually people who would like to contribute regularly.

At the moment the only real developer documentation available is the
C++ API documentation generated by Doc++. You can find it in the
subdirectory 'doc/developer/api'. To implement a new element or tool,
the source code for the existing elements/tools should be useful
reading.

--
Johannes Lehtinen <johannes.lehtinen@iki.fi>
